---
layout: post
title: Big Idea 3 Algo and Prog Core Concepts
description: A continuation to College Board's Big Idea 3, part 2.  This is a collection of Python lessons to help students understand conceptual parts algorithmic and programming ideas required by College Board's AP Computer Science Principles curriculum.
toc: False
comments: False
categories: ['CSP Big Ideas']
permalink: /csp/big-idea/concepts
courses: {'csp': {'week': 7}}
type: ccc
author: Isabel Marilla
menu: nav/csp_units/csp_unit3_p2_concepts.html
---

## Algorithms and Programming
Congratulations for making it this far!

### What you will learn

This is part two of College Board's Big Idea 3.

#### Part 1 - Fundamentals (Previous unit)
In the previous unit, you covered the foundational concepts of programming, including:
- 3.1 Variables
- 3.2 Data Abstraction
- 3.3 Mathematical Expressions
- 3.4 Strings
- 3.5 Booleans
- 3.6 Conditionals
- 3.7 Nested Conditionals
- 3.8 Iteration
- 3.10 Lists

#### Part 2 - Core Concepts (This unit)
In this unit, you will delve into more complex topics, such as:
- 3.9 Developing Algorithms
- 3.11 Search
- 3.12 Calling Procedures
- 3.13 Developing Procedures and Procedural Abstraction
- 3.14 Libraries
- 3.15 Random Values
- 3.16 Simulations
- 3.17 Algorithmic Efficiency
- 3.18 Undecidable Problems

### Why it matters

These concepts will help you grow in coding style and proficiency. Mastering these topics will prepare you for coding in a system, rather than the simplicity of coding in a single code cell. This knowledge is crucial for developing more sophisticated and efficient programs, and it will be invaluable as you progress in your computer science journey.

## Continuing on next Topics
In this unit, the topics are more complex and combine theory and programming. Provided are a few terms, but don't worry if you don't understand them at first as it is the purpose of the lesson to help you grow in the concepts.

### Basic Terms
- **Efficiency**: A measure of how well an algorithm performs, particularly in terms of time and space resources.
- **Procedures**: A programming language structure that encapsulates a sequence of statements to perform a specific task. Often called a method, function, or subroutine.
- **Libraries**: Collections of pre-written code that you can import into your programs to add functionality without having to write the code from scratch.
- **Random Values**: Values generated by a process that cannot be predicted beforehand. Coding languages contain functions to create random numbers, which are useful in simulations and games.
- **Simulations**: Algorithms designed to model the behavior of real-world systems or processes over time.
- **Undecidable Problems**: Problems for which no algorithm can be constructed that always leads to a correct yes-or-no answer.

### Resource
For more detailed information and resources, visit the official [College Board AP CSP page](https://apstudents.collegeboard.org/courses/ap-computer-science-principles).
